README.md, before:

# Thematic lists of names

This is a collection of thematic word lists that you could use to name a dozen servers or a few hundred files. The first of these lists were created to name cities in a game, and I think they could be useful in scripts that generate texts. There may be other use cases I've never heard of. I prefer lists that are ordered naturally, e.g. by size, so that you don't have to use alphabetical order every time. Most of these lists contain some diacritics and special characters; it's an international collection. Besides general comments at the top, names are not explained, so you can copy a whole list at once, and use it to assign names automatically.

## Overview of themes

|Filename|Theme|Number of names|
|-|-|-|
|[Battleships.txt](themes/Battleships.txt)|Historical battleship classes|129|
|[Bitcoin.txt](themes/Bitcoin.txt)|Bitcoin addresses|64|
|[Capitals.txt](themes/Capitals.txt)|National capitals|191|
|[Cities.txt](themes/Cities.txt)|Largest cities in the world|238|
|[Codes.txt](themes/Codes.txt)|Codes A0-Z9|260|
|[Coins.txt](themes/Coins.txt)|Cryptocurrencies|701|
|[Countries.txt](themes/Countries.txt)|UN member states|193|
|[Currencies.txt](themes/Currencies.txt)|National and international currencies|76|
|[Elements.txt](themes/Elements.txt)|Named chemical elements|118|
|[Em.txt](themes/Em.txt)|Symbols for named chemical elements|118|
|[Esperanto.txt](themes/Esperanto.txt)|Esperanto words|1626|
|[Forbes200.txt](themes/Forbes200.txt)|Forbes Global 2000 companies (2012)|200|
|[Gods.txt](themes/Gods.txt)|Deities|253|
|[Guns.txt](themes/Guns.txt)|Historical firearms|169|
|[Nobel-Lit.txt](themes/Nobel-Lit.txt)|Winners of the Nobel Prize in Literature|114|
|[Numbers.txt](themes/Numbers.txt)|Numerals 00-99|100|
|[Prophets.txt](themes/Prophets.txt)|Prophets according to Islam|25|
|[Stars.txt](themes/Stars.txt)|The brightest celestial bodies|55|
|[StarTrek.txt](themes/StarTrek.txt)|Star Trek characters|204|
|[Surnames-US.txt](themes/Surnames-US.txt)|Most common surnames in the USA|1000|
|[Tokens.txt](themes/Tokens.txt)|Cryptocurrency tokens|316|
|[UN.txt](themes/UN.txt)|United Nations organs and agencies|40|

Themes to be added later: books of the Bible, human genes (very long list), minerals, biological species in various categories (difficult if you don't want to use the Latin names). If you want to add a list, please make a pull request with the new file. I will add the description here.

## History

This collection wasn't started in an office. Do you remember playing **Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri**? One of the things that made it an epic game was the characters of the faction leaders, *divided not by nationality, but by ideology*. The city names, on the other hand, were not as distinctive. It felt like they were all created by a 19th-century poet. Besides, I needed more names on big maps. So I created my own city names, using semantic domains that seemed suitable for each faction.

The **themes** folder contains the thematic lists in plain text, plus some comments at the start of the file. See the **basenames** folder [in the original *namenlijsten* repo](https://github.com/ProkhorZ/namenlijsten) for the faction files that you'd put in the Alpha Centauri folder. Those lists were a mixture of Dutch and English. This repo is going to be a general collection of thematic word lists in English, not limited to Alpha Centauri factions.

## Other collections

I started this collection before I knew the term '[naming scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_network_naming_scheme)'. So I'm not sure whether I know all the relevant sources. Many lists in the collections I found contain explanations and comments, so you can't use them to assign names automatically.
* https://namingschemes.com/
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_lists_of_lists 
* [odan's collection of project name links](https://gist.github.com/odan/3eb5bbd32f9800de4842bfbc9d7c5968)
* The Book of Lists by David Wallechinsky, Amy Wallace and Irving Wallace, 1977 (I have a Dutch translation from 1982)

Commit message:

Add Dutch first names and Yupik words for ice

README.md, after:

# Thematic lists of names

This is a collection of thematic word lists that you could use to name a dozen servers or a few hundred files. The first of these lists were created to name cities in a game, and I think they could be useful in scripts that generate texts. There may be other use cases I've never heard of. I prefer lists that are ordered naturally, e.g. by size, so that you don't have to use alphabetical order every time. Most of these lists contain some diacritics and special characters; it's an international collection. Besides general comments at the top, names are not explained, so you can copy a whole list at once, and use it to assign names automatically.

## Overview of themes

|Filename|Theme|Number of names|
|-|-|-|
|[Battleships.txt](themes/Battleships.txt)|Historical battleship classes|129|
|[Bitcoin.txt](themes/Bitcoin.txt)|Bitcoin addresses|64|
|[Capitals.txt](themes/Capitals.txt)|National capitals|191|
|[Cities.txt](themes/Cities.txt)|Largest cities in the world|238|
|[Codes.txt](themes/Codes.txt)|Codes A0-Z9|260|
|[Coins.txt](themes/Coins.txt)|Cryptocurrencies|701|
|[Countries.txt](themes/Countries.txt)|UN member states|193|
|[Currencies.txt](themes/Currencies.txt)|National and international currencies|76|
|[Elements.txt](themes/Elements.txt)|Named chemical elements|118|
|[Em.txt](themes/Em.txt)|Symbols for named chemical elements|118|
|[Esperanto.txt](themes/Esperanto.txt)|Esperanto words|1626|
|[Forbes200.txt](themes/Forbes200.txt)|Forbes Global 2000 companies (2012)|200|
|[Gods.txt](themes/Gods.txt)|Deities|253|
|[Guns.txt](themes/Guns.txt)|Historical firearms|169|
|[Ice.txt](themes/Ice.txt)|Words for ice in Yupik|99|
|[Names-NL-female.txt](themes/Names-NL-female.txt)|First names for girls in the Netherlands|250|
|[Names-NL-male.txt](themes/Names-NL-male.txt)|First names for boys in the Netherlands|250|
|[Nobel-Lit.txt](themes/Nobel-Lit.txt)|Winners of the Nobel Prize in Literature|114|
|[Numbers.txt](themes/Numbers.txt)|Numerals 00-99|100|
|[Prophets.txt](themes/Prophets.txt)|Prophets according to Islam|25|
|[Stars.txt](themes/Stars.txt)|The brightest celestial bodies|55|
|[StarTrek.txt](themes/StarTrek.txt)|Star Trek characters|204|
|[Surnames-US.txt](themes/Surnames-US.txt)|Most common surnames in the USA|1000|
|[Tokens.txt](themes/Tokens.txt)|Cryptocurrency tokens|316|
|[UN.txt](themes/UN.txt)|United Nations organs and agencies|40|

Themes to be added later: books of the Bible, human genes (very long list), minerals, biological species in various categories (difficult if you don't want to use the Latin names). If you want to add a list, please make a pull request with the new file. I will add the description here.

## History

This collection wasn't started in an office. Do you remember playing **Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri**? One of the things that made it an epic game was the characters of the faction leaders, *divided not by nationality, but by ideology*. The city names, on the other hand, were not as distinctive. It felt like they were all created by a 19th-century poet. Besides, I needed more names on big maps. So I created my own city names, using semantic domains that seemed suitable for each faction.

The **themes** folder contains the thematic lists in plain text, plus some comments at the start of the file. See the **basenames** folder [in the original *namenlijsten* repo](https://github.com/ProkhorZ/namenlijsten) for the faction files that you'd put in the Alpha Centauri folder. Those lists were a mixture of Dutch and English. This repo is going to be a general collection of thematic word lists in English, not limited to Alpha Centauri factions.

## Other collections

I started this collection before I knew the term '[naming scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_network_naming_scheme)'. So I'm not sure whether I know all the relevant sources. Many lists in the collections I found contain explanations and comments, so you can't use them to assign names automatically.
* https://namingschemes.com/
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_lists_of_lists 
* [odan's collection of project name links](https://gist.github.com/odan/3eb5bbd32f9800de4842bfbc9d7c5968)
* The Book of Lists by David Wallechinsky, Amy Wallace and Irving Wallace, 1977 (I have a Dutch translation from 1982)
